---
author: Antony Jr.
title: Buying a Domain with Namecheap
description: "Long awaited task of buying a domain for myself is finally complete."
imageProvided: true
imageCopyright: Namecheap
tag: Personal
read: 5
---

For a long time I've been wanting to buy my own domain and have a private server host it but I've been pretty skeptical about buying my own domain. 

My exact thoughts were, *"Why would I need a domain if github's pages are good enough?"*.

Also I don't like spending like $10 on something that I really don't need. Github pages got everything, SSL encrypted, short domain names and etc. 

I changed my mind because having your own domain can educate you in a lot of ways, Like say...

   * How to handle DNS Records
   * Email Forwarding
   * How to SSL Certificate with Let's Encrypt
   * What is a A Record
   * What is a AAA+ Record and etc...

Of course I know the theory behind everything and I've done the above way earlier in my life(Expect for Let's Encrypt because it didn't exist back then).

I Also wanted to have my own domain to host my custom software over the internet. To test out and do a lot of experimentation. Also subdomains are super awesome.

Who does not want a domain like https://api.antonyjr.in for all there experimental Rest APIs.

**FYI** I currently run about 3 of my own Rest APIs.

### Why Namecheap

I'm not promoting **Namecheap** but I would definitely recommend it to a friend. When buying domain came into my thought, My first choice was **GoDaddy**, Who can register domains better than the internet giant **GoDaddy**. But the bigger the company the less you get the personal attention. 
So the top alternative for GoDaddy was **Namecheap**.

On Namecheap the same domain name was atleast $2 cheaper. I suppose it is worthy of it's name.


### The Dilemma of .Me or .In

Choosing a good TLD(*Top Level Domain*) is of atmost importance. Because if I choose a TLD now I will be using it for the foreseeable future.

*.me* is the Internet country code top-level domain (ccTLD) for **Montenegro**(citing from wikipedia). 
**.in** is the Internet country code top-level domain (ccTLD) for India.
I was into using .me but ended up using .in instead to represent my area of residence. But .me was 
slightly cheaper than .in domain.

Anyways, I've seen a lot of open source developers use different TLDs, like *.io*, *.de* and etc. *.io* was extremely costly than .in so 
**I ended up using .in**.



### Conclusion

So in the end I bought ```antonyjr.in``` domain for $6.38 which needs to be renewed on August 8th 2021.
